The Text: 4. From Constantinople to Tarsus

We also travelled (ambulavimus) in the consulate of Dalmatius and Zenophilus [ftn.1], leaving Chalcedonia on the 30th of May, and returned to Constantinople on the 25th of December in the same consulate.
From Constantinople [pcts.10, 11] you cross the strait [Bosphorus], come to Chalcedonia, and travel through the province of Bithynia.

Change at Narses - miles vii.
[572] Halt at Pandicia (Pandik) - miles vii.
Change at Pontamus - miles xiii.
Halt at Libyssa - miles ix.

Here lies King Annibalianus (Hannibal), who was once King of the Africans [ftn.2].

Change at Brunga - miles xii.
City of Nicomedia (Ismid) - miles xiii.

Total from Constantinople to Nicomedia 50 miles, 7 changes, 3 halts.

[573] Change at Egribolum - miles x.
Halt at Libum - miles xi.
Change at Liada - miles xii.
City of Nicia (Nicaea, Isnik) - miles ix.
Change at Schine - miles viii.
Halt at Midus (Moedos) - miles vii.
Change at Chogea - miles vi.
Change at Thatesus - miles x.
Change at Tutadus (Tottaion, near Geiveh) - miles ix.
Change at Protoniaca - miles xi.
Change at Artemis - miles xii.
[574] Halt at Dable (Dablis, near Tereklu) - miles vi.
Halt at Cerate - miles vi.
Frontier of Bithynia and Galatia.

Change at the frontier - miles x.
Halt at Dadartanum (Dadastanum) - miles vi.
Change at Trans Montem - miles vi.
Change at Milia - miles xi.
City of Juliopolis (near Nalli Khan) - miles viii.
Change at the river Hycron (River Siberis, Ala Dagh Su) - miles xiii.
Halt at Agannia (Lagania) - miles xi.
Change at Petrobroge (Petobroge, Bei Bazar) - miles vi.
[575] Halt at Mnizos - miles x.
Change at Prasmon - miles xii.
Halt at Malogardis (Manegordus) - miles ix.
Change at Lake Cenaxis - miles xiii.
City of Anchira (Ancyra, Ankara) - miles xiii.

Total from Nicomedia to Ancyra in Galatia 258 miles, 16 changes,112 halts.

Change at Delemna (Delemnia) - miles x.
Halt at Curveunta (Gorbeous) - miles xi.
Change at Rosolodiacum (Rosolatiacum, Orosologia) - miles xii.
Change at Aliassus - miles xiii.
City of Aspona - miles xviii.
[576] Change at Galea - miles xiii.
Change at Andrapa - miles ix.
Frontier of Galatia and Cappadocia.

Halt at Parnassus - miles xiii.
Halt at Iogola (Ozizala) - miles xvi.
Halt at Nitalis - miles xviii.
Change at Argustana - miles xiii.
City of Colonia (Archelais, Ak Serai ?) - miles xvi.
[577] Change at Momoasson (Mammasun) - miles xii.
Halt at Anathiango (Nazianzus, Nenizi) - miles xii.
Change at Chusa - miles xii.
Halt at Sasima (Hassa Keui) - miles xii.
Halt at Andavilis (Andaval) - miles xvi.

Here is the villa of Pampatus, from which come the curule horses [pct.11].

City of Thyana (Tyana, Kiz Hissan) - miles xviii.
[578] Here was born Appollonius the magician [pct.12].

City of Faustinopolis (Pashmakchi) - miles xii.
Change at Caena - miles xiii.
Halt at Opodandum (Podandus, Bozanti) - miles xii.
Change at Pylae (Ghulek Boghaz, Cilician Gates) - miles xiv.

[579] Frontier of Cappadocia and Cilicia.

Halt at Mansucrine (Mopsucrene) - miles xii.
City of Tarsus in Cilicia - miles xii.

Here was born the Apostle Paul ( Acts 21:39) [pct.13].

Total from Ancyra in Galatia to Tarsus 343 miles, 25 changes, 18 halts.